We'll come back.
We have a good idea of how to test Riak components but what about redux and some of the reducers actions
and concepts that we have.
Let's start off with reducers and you're going to absolutely love this section because remember our
reducers are pure functions and pure functions are a tester's dream.
They're the easiest to test so let's do that.
I'm going to create a new file call it reducers test.
Yes.
And then in here I'm going to import while we need the constants.
So I'm going to import the constants and obviously our reducers so import will do import star as a new
syntax as reducers from
seducers with this syntax so we can just do reducers dot whatever we do so that we export it.
So in our case reducers thoughts are sherbets reducers dot request robots which reads nicely.
All right.
Let's group these reducers this time around by using a describe block Celeste's to describe
search robots.
We're going to do our first reducer here and within here.
Whoops that's not what I wanted to do with thing here.
We're going to have a test.
The first test that says should return the initial state.
Now the initial state in the search robots reducer can be tested like this so we can do expect
reducers dot search robots.
So that's our reducer remember our reducer takes two things a state and an action and because if state
doesn't exist or is defined we give it the initial state search.
Let's do that.
I'm going to say that the reducer does search robots gets undefined.
So no state at the beginning and it's going to get no action.
But given an empty action for now we want to test for those cases where.
Well we we have an undefined state.
What happens.
Well we wanted to equal our ideal state and our ideal state and this case is to have search field to
be an empty string.
So let me say that open up our testing suite
and Arita everything is passing.
If I press say see that yeah everything is logged out nicely including our reducers dart test if we
we put in a in the search field.
It's going to fail.
All right so that's great.
That was super super easy.
What else can we do.
Well we expected that this producer when we see our change search field event that it returns a new
state.
So once again we can say that it should handle the change search field event and we can say reducers
that search robots.
Let's make this a little bit smaller
is going to get the state of let's say an empty state or you know what.
Let's add a concert initial state search here and say that this initial state search is search field
he calls this.
All right so we can just use initial search.
So this is going to be the initial state which equals to the empty string and it's going to receive
an action.
And what kind of action is it going to receive.
I am going to remove this for now.
Well if you remember our actions are going to have a type.
And in this case we'll say that type is going to be changed search field that comes from our Constans
file and we can make up the payload that it's going to send.
So let's just say for now that the payload is going to be a b c.
Now what do we expect from that output.
We expect that once it goes through this review sure that the search feel is going to equal a b c so
we can say search field should be ABC again.
We have our initial state search which is an empty string.
It goes through this do you sir with this action and we now need the state because remember this reducer
is just going to return to the state.
We want the state to be a b c let's save and we have a bit of a fail here we'll see what kind of Nera
we get.
And it looks like just the unexpected token Oh and we need an extra bracket here.
And we get our Knerr saying that type is not defined because because well we don't need to type here.
That's just a typo on my part.
All right.
So that's passing.
How simple is that.
Ruth reducers all we need to do is just give us some sort of an input and expect an output and you could
just keep going like this forever.
Make your tests better and better.
Let's do the next review.
Now let's say that we want to let's make more space here.
We want to describe the
request robots reducer.
In that case we can just say that we have what let's create an initial state.
So I'm going to again say Konst initial state for the robots.
And if you remember we have the this as the initial state so I'm just going to actually copy this.
So this is our initial state for the test.
And we want to do the same thing as above.
It should return the initial state.
So let's just copy and paste the above and just change the search robots to request robots and we want
that to equal the initial state.
Let's save and we have a failed test.
Let's see what we failed here.
Initial State robots is not defined.
Because I need to add a cost in here.
Let's save.
All right.
Everything is passing.
We're getting our initial state as expected.
That's good.
But let's do a nother test and say that we want the three cases over here to be tested.
So let's do an initial it
should handle requests robots list to pending first action and it's going to
have something similar to here.
So again we're going to use the xpect statement.
It's going to have the reducers Daut this time request robots.
It's going to receive the initial state of the robots and then we'll give it an action of type
request robots pending and a payload of let's give its is pending too true.
So we expect that when this happens actually if we take a look at the reduced Here we see that it automatically
sense the spending too true and there's no payload.
So we don't need to set that we don't need to send a payload but we expect that payload to change from
expanding all us to false here because expanding when we start off is always false
and in here we want this to equal the state of robots.
With an empty array is spending set to true.
So let's save.
All right.
Everything is passing but I just noticed here that we don't actually want the default is spending to
be true.
We wanted to be false because when we first have the initial state.
Well we haven't sent the promise yet.
We haven't requested anything from the API.
If we go into our reducers fall we see that we have the initial stage here by true by mistake.
We can just change it to false will save and in here let's save here.
Perfect.
Everything is working.
And the request robot's spending is changing our spending state to true.
All right let's keep going.
We have the second case which is the success.
So I'm just going to copy and paste here and this time say request robots spending success and this
success should have.
Well what should it have.
Well we need some sort of payload because again in our reducers we have the robots action payload that
we return or out to the state upon success.
So let's just create that in our type.
We're going to see a payload and I'm going to return.
Let's just grab
those just create a Dommy idea of 2:59 let's say name of test and then finally e-mail of test at gmail
dot com.
You see over here that this is a string instead of a number I believe in our component we're actually
not distinguishing between a number in a string so that's something we might want to fix in the future.
But for now we expect that if the payload is that the state now gets updated with that payload.
So let's copy that.
And we also expect the is pending to be false again if we remember our seducer.
We're also changing our is pending to false on success.
So let's save and we have a bit of an error here.
That is a simple arch nemesis Khama if we behave there that is.
It passes one final test.
You can see you can get pretty repetitive with tests but this is a good thing with reducers they're
so simple to test that you just copy and paste a lot of the code which again is fine for testing because
this code was never going to go into production.
So let's do the the failed case here.
That is the failed.
And in this case we want the payload.
If we go back to our function we want the payload to just have an error.
So again back here we can just say super upset that we got in there and we expect the state to now have
an air that is of
you and a spending of false
although I see here that we're actually not turning the is pending to false which we should be.
So if we save Atacama.
But we also expect the robots array to be returned remember.
So the robots arrays should be empty and now we have this passing.
Very cool.
All right that's enough for you.
Do you see how simple they are to test simply checking they input against the output.
And that's why you want to have these reducers everywhere and why redux is so amazing it's super easy
to test.
And if you think about it all our logic is in our reducers.
So if we have really really good test for our reducers we cover a lot of the logic of our applications
because reducers are the thing that taken actions and spit out the state.
They're pretty much the controller or the brain of our app redux allows us to have a really really nice
test and keeping things simple on the reac side by just doing snapshot testing or simple enzyme tests
and testing out pure functions which again is very useful.
But for now that's it for me.
I'll see in the next one by.